Quality Assurance - making sure a software or app is made the right way, so it functions well and doesn’t have many bugs or errors.


2 Testing Approaches Technique:

Proactive - The testing is planned very early so problems can be found and fixed before the software is built.

Reactive - An approach in which the testing is not started until after design and coding are completed.


3 Approaches to implement Functional Testing:

White Box Testing - They test the code, design, and structure to make sure everything is working correctly, and to find any problems that could affect performance, security, or usability.

- also called "Clear box testing," "Open box testing," or "Glass box testing."

- Like opening a clock and checking all the gears inside.

Black Box Testing - a method where testers focus on how the software behaves without knowing anything about its internal code or structure.

- They only care about what the software does when you give it inputs and what it outputs.

- Like using the clock and checking if it tells the correct time.

Gray Box Testing - a technique where testers have partial knowledge of the software's internal workings, meaning they know some parts of the code or design, but not everything. Combination of White Box Testing and Black Box Testing.

- You know a little bit about how the system works inside, but not everything.


Test Oracle - a way to check if a program is working correctly. Comparing the actual result to the expected result.

Test prioritization - is about deciding which test cases to run first, based on their importance.

Project Management Tool

Jira - software application used for issue tracking and project management. Used by agile development teams to track bugs, stories, epics, and other tasks.


Testing Techniques

Functional Testing - type of testing that checks if the software works according to the functional requirements. Basically, what is the software supposed to do.

Types:

User Acceptance Testing (UAT) - final step in the testing process, where the end users or clients test the software to make sure it meets their needs before it’s released to the public. It happens after all the other tests (like functional, integration, and system testing) are done, which means it’s the last chance to find any issues before the software is deployed.

Exploratory Testing - testers explore the software without predefined test cases. Instead of following a strict plan, they interact with the software, trying out different things to see how it behaves.

Sanity Testing – When you add something new (like a feature or a bug fix), it's a test to make sure the new change is functioning as expected.

Ex: Imagine a login system:

· A bug in the password field was fixed

· Now you do sanity testing by:

o Trying to log in with the correct password

o Trying a wrong password

You only test the login feature, not the whole app.


Regression Testing - When you add something new, you test the entire software to see if the new change affects any other part of the system.

Ex: You fix a bug in the login system

Now you test:

· Login

· Signup

· Forgot password

Even though you only fixed login, you check other features too.

Smoke Testing - When a new version of the software is released, the testing team runs a few basic tests to see if the most important features work. If it passes the testing, they move on to more detailed testing. If it doesn't work, they stop and fix the major issues first.

Simple idea

Before doing detailed testing, you first check:

“Does the app even run properly?”

If it fails here, no need to test further.

📱 Example

For an app, smoke testing checks:

· App opens without crashing

· Login works

· Basic navigation works

You’re not testing deeply—just the important basics.


Unit Testing - is when you test small parts of the software, like a module or function or a specific piece of code, to make sure it works correctly.

Ex: Suppose you have a function:

def add(a, b): return a + b

In unit testing, you check:

add(2, 3) → 5

· add(-1, 1) → 0

· add(0, 0) → 0

You’re only testing this one function, not the whole program.

Integration Testing - is when you test how different parts (or modules) of the software work together. For example, if one module handles login and another handles user data, Integration Testing would check if the login module can pass user info correctly to the user data module.

EX: Imagine an app with:

· Login module

· Database

· Dashboard

In integration testing, you check:

· User logs in → data is checked in database

· After login → dashboard loads correctly

You’re testing the interaction between modules.


Mocking - is when you create a mimic version of real dependencies (database, API, or etc), so you can test your code without needing the real thing. It behaves just like the real thing but doesn't actually do anything complex. This helps you focus on testing your code without worrying about external systems.

Ex: Imagine you're testing a weather app. Instead of getting real weather data from the internet, you use a fake weather service (a mock). This fake service always gives you some weather info, like "It's sunny" or "It's raining," so you can test how the app works without needing the real weather data.



Non-Functional Testing – to test non-feature areas like reliability, load test, performance, and accountability of the software.

Types:

Performance testing - is about checking how well a system (like a website or app) works under different conditions. The goal is to see how the system performs in terms of speed, how many users it can handle, and how stable it is. You want to make sure everything runs smoothly, even when things get really busy. 

Key Focus Areas (Three S’s) 

When doing performance testing, there are three important things to look at: 

Speed: How fast does the system respond? 

Scalability: How many users can use it at the same time? 

Stability: Can the system keep working without crashing, even over time? 

Types of Performance Testing 

Ex: Lighhouse, Locust, Webpage Test, Gatling, K6, Artillery, Vegeta, JMeter 

Here are some common types of performance testing, each focusing on different things: 

Load Testing: Testing how the system performs when lots of people use it at once (like during a big sale or event). 

Stress Testing: Pushing the system beyond its limits to see how it behaves when overloaded (to check if it crashes or recovers). 

Spike Testing: Quickly increasing the number of users or requests to see how the system handles sudden jumps in traffic. 

Endurance Testing: Checking how the system performs over a long period of time, like if it stays fast and stable after being used for hours or days. 

Volume Testing: Testing how well the system handles large amounts of data, like thousands or millions of records. 

Scalability Testing: Checking if the system can handle increased load or users over time without breaking. 

Capacity Testing: Testing the maximum load the system can handle, to see how much traffic it can support before it starts to struggle. 

Security testing - is about making sure a software application is safe from bad actors (like hackers or malicious users). It helps find and fix weaknesses in the software that could let someone steal data, break things, or cause other types of damage. 

Secrets Management is a way to safely store, organize, and use sensitive information that software or systems need to work. These includes Passwords, API keys, SSH keys, Certificates, Backup codes 

Vulnerability Scanning is a way to automatically check computers, servers, and networks for security weaknesses. 

Accessibility testing - is a way to check if a website or app can be used by everyone, including people with disabilities. This means making sure that people who have problems with their sight, hearing, or mobility can still use the app or website easily. 

Ex: Wave, AXE, Chrome DevTools 

 

Email Testing - allows you to view your email before sending it out to your subscriber list to verify links, design, spelling errors, and more. 

Ex: Mailinator, Gmail Tester 

Test Data Management is about making sure testers have the data they need to test software. 

Testers need data that is correct, safe, and easy to use. 

This helps check if the software works properly. 

Ways to handle test data include: 

Data masking – hiding sensitive information 

Data generation – creating test data 

Data subsetting – using a smaller set of data for testing 

Data virtualization – simulating data without copying it 

Ex: Delphix 

The Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) - is a systematic process to build software. It helps teams plan how and what to develop, maintain, replace, modify, or enhance the software.  

Agile Model – It is where an entire work is broken into smaller pieces. Basic plans and requirements are defined at the start, but details can change over time (continuous delivery). As you move along the SDLC phases, you are allowed to go back to the previous stage just to address a particular issue or feedback. It is an iterative process. 

Kanban provides a practical way of visualizing the tasks and work capacity of a team. Meaning, tasks are shown on a board (either physical or digital), so everyone can easily see what is being worked on, what is pending, and what is completed. 

Scrum is a method where the Scrum team defines the goals for one sprint, and then sets new goals for the next sprint. 

Extreme Programming (XP) is an Agile method that focuses on building high-quality software while also making work better and less stressful for developers. It uses clear rules and best practices to guide how software should be designed, written, and tested. XP is more detailed than other Agile frameworks when it comes to how developers should code and work together, helping teams produce reliable software efficiently. 

SAFe (Scaled Agile Framework) helps big companies use Agile when many teams are working together. It shows teams how to plan, work, and stay organized at different levels. 

It has three main levels: 

Team – people doing the actual work 

Program – groups of teams working together 

Portfolio – managing big goals and priorities 

 

 

Testing Methodologies 

Test Driven Development (TDD) - way of writing software where you create tests before writing the code. 

First, you write a test that defines what the code should do. 

Then, you write the smallest amount of code needed to pass the test. 

If the test fails, you fix the code until it passes. 

Acceptance Test-Driven Development (ATDD) is a way of building software where the whole team agrees on what the software should do before coding starts. 

The team writes acceptance criteria (rules for how the software should behave). 

These criteria are turned into automated tests. 

Developers write code to pass these tests, making sure the software does what stakeholders want. 

Behavior-Driven Development (BDD) is a way of building software where developers, testers, and business people work together. 

They describe how the software should behave in plain, easy-to-understand language. 

They give examples of what should happen in different situations. 

These examples are turned into automated tests to make sure the software works as expected. 

Root Cause Analysis (RCA) a systematic problem-solving method that aims to identify the fundamental reasons behind an issue or event. 

Instead of just fixing the obvious problem, RCA digs deeper to find the main cause. 

Once the root cause is known, solutions can be made to prevent the same problem from happening again. 

 

Manual Testing is a type of software testing where a tester checks the software by hand, without using any automated tools. 

The tester follows test cases to see if the software works correctly. 

The goal is to find bugs, errors, or issues in the application. 

It is one of the oldest and simplest testing methods, and it helps catch important problems that might affect users. 

Test Case is a detailed series of steps plan to check if a specific part of the software works correctly. 

It includes steps to follow, data to use, conditions before and after the test, and what the expected result should be. 

Testers use it to compare the actual result with the expected result to see if the software works as intended. 

Test scenario is a high-level description of something that can be tested in the software. 

It covers a group of related test cases. 

Test scenarios help the team check both positive (what should work) and negative (what shouldn’t work) cases of the software. 

Compatibility Testing is a type of software testing that checks if your software works properly on different devices, operating systems, browsers, networks, or hardware. 

Verification: 

Verification is about checking the software during development. 

It ensures the software is built correctly according to the requirements, design, and plan. 

Activities include reviews, walkthroughs, and inspections. 

Think of it as: “Are we building the product right?” ✅ 

Validation: 

Validation is about checking the software after it’s built. 

It ensures the software actually meets the customer’s needs and works correctly in real use. 

Activities include unit testing, integration testing, system testing, and user acceptance testing. 

Think of it as: “Are we building the right product?” 🎯 

A Test Plan is a document that explains how testing will be done for a software product. 

It includes the testing strategy, goals, schedule, resources, and deliverables. 

It helps the team plan the work and effort needed to make sure the software is of good quality. 

 

Automated Testing  

Front-end automation is a type of automation that works where the user interacts with the software, like on websites or applications. 
